good morning and welcome to session 613
creating application
Buster's for apache and mysql is my
pleasure to introduce to you thomas
Loran from emic networks a partner of
ours that we've been working with for
the last six months in providing this
cluster technology so without further
ado Thomas come on good morning
everybody that's to make sure that this
thing works right here like Chris said
my name is Thomas loriana in the
principal systems engineer for emic
networks where San jose-based company
specializing in apache and mysql
clustering we do have engineering
offices overseas in oulu and helsinki
finland so we're kind of an
international company but we are located
here in the Bay Area what I'm going to
talk to you about is application
clustering the concepts the technologies
for like i said apache and mysql i'm
going to talk about why we use load
balancing and why we use clustering i'm
going to talk about the various types of
clustering i'm also going to talk about
the various types of load balancing and
how load balancing works now when you're
talking to an audience like this there's
a wide range of experiences so some of
the early slides might be a little bit
slow for people that are experienced in
load balancing or some of the other
cluster technologies but I think it's
important to get a baseline technology
so people understand what I'm talking
about when I say load balancing people
understand what I'm talking about for
clustering because clustering can mean
different things to different people so
why do we use clustering and load
balancing well basically there's two
reasons the first one is redundancy
people have got else la's that they need
to meet you got to have up time for your
internal and external customers
redundancy is one of the primary reasons
that people use cholesterin and load
balance in the second one is scalability
a lot of times people have hit
performance walls on the single law box
and they need to put more users on a
particular application well how do you
do that how do you make sure that your
incoming client requests go to multiple
servers and then how that's the load
balancing part and then how do you make
sure that
the various servers have the same data
consistently but on the back side and
databases / to have a particular
challenge for that so what are we
talking about here what we're talking
about is a multi-tiered approach now
this is something that most everybody
understands you got you know your web
clients you got your application servers
in the middle and you got your mysql
database servers on the back end now
sometimes these these layers can be
blurred and you'll see that throughout
the slides like a lot of times I'll be
combining your middle tier and your
backends here together and bear with me
as I go through these slides that
several times I don't have to say okay
please understand that when you're
talking about an Apache you're talking
about the client being your web browsers
are going to your application servers
but then sometimes when I'm talking
about MySQL you need to understand that
the client in that particular case is
your web app going to the back end but
for space in the ways that the slides
are laid out that this is the only time
really that I'm going to put the
three-tier architecture up there but but
that's kind of what we're talking about
like I said Apache clustering between
your browsers and your application
servers mysql cluster in between your
application servers and your database
back in and sometimes you can combine
you know in amex case in particular you
for very low nsmb people you have the
option of combining your application
servers with your database servers so
one of the things that's pretty
important is understanding what
clustering is clustering means various
things to different people you've got
computational clustering application
clustering and data store clustering I'm
in a kind of under mention what each one
of those are and then focused primarily
on application clustering and data store
clustering so consultation elestren
there's a lot of sessions here today
this week about computational
clusterings and basically it's designed
to seamlessly integrate resources like
CPUs into a computational grid sometimes
called high-performance clustering
typical application be video rendering
scientific and technical environments a
good example as you can read up there is
Virginia Tech that's not the focus of
this presentation there are other
presentations that talk about
computational clustering in hpc this is
a traditional application clustering and
would traditionally what happens is
hopefully you guys can see the little
little tiny dot here you've got two
applications running on two different
servers here and traditionally there's
an application heartbeat between those
two servers now and go back here to this
one reason I hesitated for a second is
normally on my other slides I had IP
addresses what would happen is your top
server up here would have one IP address
like a 192 168 1 2 the one down here
we'd have a 192 168 1 dot 3 and in the
center we would have like a virtual IP
address that people would connect to
those two and it'd be like a 192 168 1
dot 1 the application heartbeat
determines which one of these two
applications is going generally but not
always only one of those applications is
going at a particular time what makes
application clustering different is the
fact that traditionally and once again
there's always exceptions I'm talking
about generally here generally there's a
single data store in this particular
case I've got a next serve raid on the
back back in that means and there are
exceptions to this but generally
speaking only one of those applications
can be active at a time because you
can't have to act two applications
writing to your same disk or mounting
the same volume at the same time so
that's what happens with application
clustering now datastore clustering is
kind of a different concept and data
store what we're talking about is the
physical data the disks themselves
sometimes it happens at the file level
and this really has no awareness of the
application so there are various volume
replicators or some filesystem
replicators things like that that will
take your data that's physically on the
disk and replicate it back and forth no
awareness whatsoever to the application
the channel this requires data
replication the challenge with this is
the applications hold data in memory now
what that means why that's a problem is
frequently when you're using
or clustering your data underneath an
application can change physically on the
disk but your duplicate physically
pulling from what's cashed in memory so
you can have a case where things are out
of out of sync so when you're running
data store computations or data store
clustering it's very very important that
you have hooks that are built into your
application that's where a company like
my see like Emmett comes in because we
have hooks where we can do the
application clustering the data store
clustering and make sure that the
application is aware that the data
physically on a disk has changed and
once again I'll talk more about this
it's particularly important with
databases where you have the concept of
order so datastore replication
traditional file or disk replication one
of the ways that you do this is a
master-slave architecture what happens
is you've got read rights that come down
to a primary server then what that
server does is it forms out the requests
or replicates those over to other
servers that are slaves those other
servers sometimes but not always can be
used as read-only replicas but you can't
write to them and the reason being is
data consistency that's why you've only
got a single place where you do your
rights and then you've got read-only on
top of that one of the things one of the
when you're talking about databases the
concept that follows that is lazy
database replication lazy database
replication does use the same master
slave architecture and it uses log
shipping via peer to peer connection to
maintain slave databases one of the big
advantage of that of course it's easy to
set up it has well it it's able to
survive relatively high latency for
replication and the slaves are read-only
now the cons of course are the failover
is not transparent for applications it's
got limited scalability data can be lost
that the master becomes unavailable for
extended periods of times those are some
of the cons of that data sort clustering
what we're talking about here and this
is actually master less peer-to-peer is
not correct master less is the correct
term for this so what happens is each
one of you know
is able to handle both a read/write and
each one of your nodes connects your
data and transports it to all the other
ones now when you're doing this it's
very very important that you have some
kind of a consistency protocol so that
each one of your notes has exactly the
same data because if you don't what will
happen is one of your nodes will read
one set of data that hasn't been
transported over to the other side and
you get inconsistent views when you're
dealing with a database that could be
very bad so active database replication
once again this is not a peer-to-peer
this is a mass or less and what happens
is all database requests are sent to all
nodes in a cluster it ensures that the
database requests are executed in the
correct order and i'll talk more about
the ordering problem the advantage here
is the applications is the failover is
absolutely seamless you get a single IP
address where the applications go you
the nodes are consistent at all times
the cons are it's a little bit more
complex to set up and you need
additional networks at least an amex
case what you need is an additional
network on the back side to handle
replication but I'll show that in
another slide now what I'm going to talk
about is load balancing now load
balancing the problem that we're going
to try to solve is how do you spread the
load between the various servers well so
you've got in this particular case what
I've got here is some web clients that
are trying to go to a generic cluster
over here so the first request comes on
in it goes to one server and you want to
make sure that the next requests are
replicated and goes over to the other
servers well how do you do that well
make sure that don't you okay the
challenge with doing load balancing like
this is how do you know that the server
is up you don't want to send data
blindly down here well here's a couple
common ways that it's done one of the
ways is dns round-robin and if you put
this in the i'm a network guy so if you
put this in terms of the OSI model a dns
round-robin is what i call no less.i
level basically what you do is you just
blindly ship the information down the
pike whether that particular servers
or not layer three type checking that
servers up is you do something like a
very simple ping and layer 4 is you can
check and scan it from particular ports
is open so let's say if you're going
after Apache you want to make sure that
port 80 is open so not only is a server
physically up but you want to make sure
that that port is open and finally one
of the other ways to do it is you can do
it at an application layer where layer 7
where you will do something like an HTTP
GET request as if it comes back with the
right answer you know that the
application is up because it's quite
possible for your node to be up in the
application is crashed so these are
things that load balancers have got to
take into account when they determine
which one of those servers that they
move over to ok so there's traditionally
three types of load balancing DNS
round-robin which I sort of talked about
before hardware load balancing software
load balancing so in a DNS round-robin
scenario which is very very common what
happens is and this could be very
elementary for some people here but just
bear with me so we have a level set here
what happens is a web client does a
request for let's say WWII sitecom it
goes the request goes to a dns server
the dns server responds back with an
address in this case 17 100 105 then it
takes that physical IP address at 17 100
105 and ships it over to one of the
servers the advantage is for dns
round-robin is it's very free it's easy
let me play back up here and talk a
little bit more about this like so what
would happen is the next request would
do the very same thing it would go up to
ww my website com it would get a
different IP address instead of 17 100
105 that we get 17 100 100 for which
would take it over not to the middle
server but would take it over let's say
to the top server or one of the other
one so what happens is in your DNS zone
records you would have for ww my website
com you would have four or five six
seven different physical IP addresses
the advantage is it's free very easy to
set up it's very easy to administer
however like I said before the con is
there's no awareness of the servers
being up or down there's no inherent
ability to separate out services and
that's one of the advanced features as
well you can use different names for
different services it has no way to say
that an HTTP request goes here in HTTPS
request goes there a database request
goes here so can't handle any of that
kind of stuff it's not very intelligent
whatsoever so hardware load balancing
requires a network device not
necessarily a network switch they're
very specialized devices to do this and
what happens is you get an address that
comes in in this case 17 say to 16 17
168 64 and then the load balancer apply
some sort of a policy and I'll talk
about what the policies are on this
their various current parameters that
the little hardware load balancer used
to determine which one of these goes to
it translates that address to a private
address of one of these it could go to
1000 123 etc etc or hey said the first
one comes in it gets translated goes to
1000 110 zeros are two for your next
request 1000 three we back up here and
talk about what some of the types of
policies are and when I say policies
typical ways that they do it are things
like round robin now it's different than
dns round robin because the hardware
load balancer physically knows what
server is up and if a server is down it
simply drops it out of the rotation one
of the other policies is weighted round
robin here's a good example let's say
you've got a new dual g5 running an
application over here and you've got a
low-end linux box running out pentium
166 over here what you can do is say is
you can wait the g5 to be more
preferable than the low end pentium box
so let's say for every one request that
the Pentium box gets your g5 gets five
that's that's one of the weighted ones
you can do things like simple love it's
a first-hand first out latency
but what you can't do and where Emma
comes is you can't query the server for
things like server load balance or
server CPU utilization and parameters
that are specific to an application
that's running on that server that's one
of the policies that emek has it's an
advantage over a hardware load balancer
like I said they're very very powerful
the flexible you can separate out the
services and they can handle special
cases well William what do I mean by
special cases and I'm not going to go
into a lot of detail about what special
cases are but they're things like ssl
encryption things like persistence and
what I mean by persistence is sometimes
when you're running a web application of
financial application you want to make
sure that the exact same tuple or exact
same client on the same port goes to
exactly that same server before that
that gets committed that's called
persistence one of the other things that
Hardware load balancers can do is they
can do things called global load
balancing where you may have a cluster
in New York and you may have a cluster
in Los Angeles how do you make sure that
somebody in Chicago goes to the right
one those are global load balancing
things these are things that Hardware
load balancers kind of specialized on
they're usually deployed in pairs and
they're very very expensive they're 15
to 50 thousand dollars each so thirty
thousand to a hundred thousand dollars
to get them set up they're pretty
complex to set up and administer just a
lot of policies rules and things like
that and like I said they don't have as
part of the policies they don't have any
direct awareness of what your
application load is so software load
balancing an example is the emek
application cluster what we do is we
make sure that each one of our nodes
gets a each one of our sessions and then
using our policies inside there we will
make sure that one of those gets
accepted and the other to get dropped
and in a second I will go into that and
I'll explain how we drop those and how
we actually run our flow this is on the
front or the public network and we're
talking about the load balancing later
on the presentation I'm going to talk
specifically about emich and how we do
after we've load down south how do we do
total ordered replication of the
database on the backhand
like I said the next one would go to the
next server gets pretty redundant you
can you guys kind of get the idea here
so it's the advantages for a make
application clusters or software load
downs are in our particular case we're
designed for HTTP and mysql policy based
based on server application load it's
very easy to set up and easier to
administer I said on the con it does
require a separate network on the back
side you can be a virtual networking and
be a physical one and also it's designed
to support only HTTP in mysql and it
doesn't handle the special cases
currently in this version of code right
now that we've got out it doesn't handle
the special cases so let me switch gears
that was kind of a high overview of what
load balancing is in general and what
replication is in general very broad
brush on that let's talk about emic
application clustering wow it's same
technology framework and this is where I
condense it I talked before about a
three tier architecture well this this
will always be your clients here and
this is a cluster and I deliberately
left it out whether that's going to be
like an Apache cluster whether that's
going to be a mysql cluster so several
times in this presentation I'm going to
talk about these web clients here
remember that I'll try to make a
specific reference whether that's a web
browser or whether that's an application
as your client that's talking to the
database on the back end so what my a
skill does is we apply apache load
balancing on the front end then we can
do my SQL load balancing and then we can
do mysql replication and you notice one
of the things i didn't put up here was
actually apache replication that's
currently not in this particular product
because when you're talking about these
kind of websites generally speaking
you're talking about static content for
a lot of your web data your your dynamic
content is generally in your database
that gets replicated so there are other
mechanisms that you could since it
doesn't change that often that you could
actually replicate your web content
between your various servers but
remember to have a cluster you've got
have load balancing and you got to make
sure that your content is consistent
it's databases to change constantly and
databases have got the total order
problem and that's what we're going to
talk about so emek application cluster
you get dynamic load balancing you get
an active replication as opposed to lazy
replication and you get fault detection
and isolation so what do I let let's
take a walk through here what we do is
we configure our switches and we're
changing the way that we do this right
now between various versions but we take
our interfaces and switches are
configured to allow all packets from all
clients to arrive on all nodes so
basically everything gets flooded to
each one of these servers generally
speaking there will be a syn packet at
the front and the syn packet has got to
match our policy so the first server set
up so that it will accept syn packet one
the second one set up to accept two
second one sets up three what happens is
the other syn packets are dropped so
that we only have one session going the
initial sin set up goes to all the
servers and then the other sessions are
dropped that's how it gets flooded and
then based on that policy we decide
whether we're going to accept that
particular flow or not accept that flow
now let me give you an example here kind
of scalability that we're talking about
the first slide right here is this is an
example of a standalone mysql server
down here these are transactions per
second these are fairly typical what
we're seeing over some low-end three
node clusters here but the relative
depending on things like your network
your hardware your application on the
back side here this is what's a server
unit so this is like half a server one
server to server etc etc you see when we
put my SQ or we put em application
cluster on a note on a single node and
we turn it on we really don't think much
of a performance hit whatsoever and
obviously we don't get any scaling
because there's only one server when we
go to two servers here you can see that
we we don't quite double the load but we
definitely get up there and then when we
go to three servers you see that the the
transit
actions per second go up it doesn't go
up exactly you know 141 but there is a
linear relationship as we go up so it's
managed off of a java application is
aqua fide and this is an example of our
client and later on in the demo I'm
going to talk about that i'm going to
show you this I'm going to connect up to
a cluster I'm going to bring a couple
nodes online each one of the nodes is
represented by a particular glyph or an
icon that has various colors for various
meaning it can be active wear it handles
all our requests you can be offline
where it does not handle any requests
whatsoever in other words totally dead I
can be standby standby kind of
interesting because what a standby
server is doing is it's replicating all
your database changes on the back end
but it's not servicing any read requests
so it can come online very very quickly
because it doesn't have to synchronize
any kind of a database so it's ready to
go transitional it's sort of moving
between the state so you'll see this
glyph come up several times when you're
actually moving between a standby and
inactive or an offline and inactive
status and a maintenance mode is where
you take the database down for
maintenance so I'm going to switch over
to a cluster here then you can change
the demo over here so what I've got here
is I found I've already hooked up to a
application cluster this is a prototype
software we're running here for an OS 10
port I should say that we're in version
20 we are built for Linux we've got
production customers running in version
on Linux but several months ago we
started an OS 10 port so what I'm
showing now is the OS 10 port of our
product which is prototype software I'll
talk about when we're when we're looking
at releasing it but it's not a build
because that's already out there it's
it's just a conversion over to a
different OS what we're seeing here is
node 3 up here at the very top is
running an inactive status ah no two and
three are in a cold status and we've set
up a linux server that's running a
script that's banging this for load so
it
God if I remember the script right it's
setup it's putting about 350 clients are
connecting on it we've got a lot of
artificial things in the script to
generate a hundred percent load here now
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
ctrl click on our first server here and
I'm going to move it from an offline
status to an active status first thing
it does is it goes over into a
transitional mode and as it starts to
move what's happening now is the first
server is sending its load over to the
second one it's actually copying the
database physically so you don't have to
have that one set up it's physically
copying that database over and now the
second one is online now if you take a
look at the chart here it took a little
bit of a dip and then our CPU
utilization should go right back up but
our transactions per second let me move
over here so we're not checking a load
we're checking on our requests radar
transactions per second our transactions
per second went up here now you'll
notice that this doesn't have the same
scalability that I shown the other slide
because we're running prototype software
and our engineers are still kind of
tweaking the code I just wanted to show
that it does increase it's not as a
larger increases we have on our Linux
but um well we're still running a
hundred percent load on two servers now
because that's what our script is
pushing we're actually getting more
throughput these two servers ones at 96
ones at ninety-eight percent that's
about as high as they'll get they
usually don't go to a hundred percent
but sometimes it takes a little while to
level out the load because of the number
of transactions some have got a timeout
and the load balancer shifts other
transactions there so sometimes it'll
take you three to five minutes before
they sort of level out at the same
utilization now what I'm going to do is
I'm going to ctrl click on our third
note I'm going to bring that online now
what's interesting here and while we
always recommend deploying these in
three is what's going to happen is one
of the servers is going to go into a
standby mode a special kind of standby
mode where it's not going to be
servicing
out it's going to freeze the database as
a snapshot copy it over to the new node
that's coming online and cash all the
requests that are coming in then when
both of them have the exact same copy of
the database what it's going to do is
take the cached information that it was
transmitting verify that everything is
consistent and bring all three of them
up on the same time so it's better
always to have three than it is to so
that you can always have one running as
you're doing this because one does move
into a maintenance mode or in the
standby mode so as you can see what's
happening is both of these have gone
into transition state one of them is
still active now this guy's gone offline
and he's while the top guy is still
servicing all the requests the guy on
the right has now transferred his
database over to the over to the one on
the left he's got caught up and then he
takes the information that's cached and
he brings those together and well down
here this is this was running the first
line was a single box the second one
with two boxes and now that's increased
up to three so while we're still running
our loads we go back here engine yeah r
load overall for the cluster is still
running 97% we've got the Linux box set
up to just blast the bosses as much as
it can take you'll see that our requests
per second up don't pay that much
attention to what the Delta is between
the steps because that's code
optimization that's specific to the OS
10 platform that we're still working on
so that basically is the demo that I
wanted to show you and go back to the
presentation kind of interesting how one
of them will go offline in then copy the
database over or what while the first
one is still servicing all your requests
okay can we cut back over to the slides
done with the demo all right thanks so
let's talk about how EAC does the octave
replication and I told you that one of
the problems that we had was a two-phase
commit I don't think that was actually
in the slide lazy when people
traditionally did active replication
they had a concept
the two-phase commit means your database
right has got to be committed on one
server and that's got to be committed on
the other servers I acknowledged before
it actually becomes let's say a final
commit well that's very very slow so
what we wanted to do the whole absence
of why emic was created the problem that
we were trying to solve was how do we
how do we avoid this two phase commit
and still have a lot of speed well we
came up for our concept of apples active
replication on explain how we do that so
what we do is we've got a group
communication protocol and we use a
total reliable multicast protocol it's a
token token based passing protocol a lot
of people joke with me it's a token ring
no no it's not token ring okay it's a
token passing scheme that we use and we
use the reliable multicast of course if
your network guy you say well wait a
second rule I multicast is an oxymoron
it's not reliable well because we use
the token scheme and we what we do is
each one of our requests gets a sequence
number that's assigned to that
particular request and then we're able
to keep everything in track the token
gives a particular note permission to
transmit and it doesn't wait for the for
the event the request actually execute
on each one that knows what we're trying
to do is make sure that it gets queued
in the proper order so that's what we're
doing with a sequence number for each
request we also have a mechanism for
handling cluster for partition clusters
and what I mean by a partition clusters
let's say I've got five clusters in a
node there's some kind of a partition on
the back end and what happens is they're
still there still connected up on the
front end so it's being load balanced
across the front but it's partitioned on
the back so you've got two nodes over
here in this group that think that
they're servicing all the requests and
got three nodes over here determining
that they're still servicing all the
requests well one of those two can't be
right because then you've got a
partition cluster we have a mechanism
for handling that and shutting down what
we call the node that isn't the quorum
the quorum or the majority continues to
operate and the other part actually
drops off the other thing is we're
actually
degraded with MySQL lock manager so the
problem that we're trying to solve is
how do we have total ordered consistency
so here's our front network we're doing
a standard load balancing that we had
talked about before we receive the
tokens on a private network we assign an
order request of them and then we
multicast them out on the back side and
you'll notice here that we've got a
token right here on the top this just
gives him permission to transmit and
then each one of your request gets
assigned a particular sequence number so
the sequence number that each one of
these nodes gets is one for example then
we do our next operation the load
balancer goes over let's say to the
middle server he does a request that
request is number two for example he
gets the token so he has permission to
transmit that and he multicast that out
and then everybody says well the last
one I saw was one I'm getting a two so I
know that everything's in order it's got
to be sequential once again the load
balancers changes over to the third node
it's got a request that comes in
database replication request it's
assigns it number three it gets the
token it multicast that out to each one
of the nodes so as you can see there's
no two phase commit here and that's
really what we're trying to do is solve
that two phase commit problem now for
your programmers out there's this makes
a lot of sense here's the problem that
we're trying to solve with databases it
makes a big difference the order that
you receive your particular request
because as you're well aware you know
three plus 4/5 there's a lot of
different than 3/4 plus 5 so with
databases you got to make sure that the
order is exactly consistent now there
are a couple things that go into making
up that order you've got network latency
and things like that but on each server
each one of your threads could be
operating at a different rate it could
be different cpu load on each one of the
servers so you need to make sure even
though the request gets to that
particular server how do you ensure that
it gets ordered or executed in exactly
the right order on different servers is
a very challenging problem like I said
what we do is we assign sequence numbers
to it and we cue them
for execution in exactly the same order
as long as they're cute then we can free
up and go to the next operation so I
talked about fault detection and
isolation one of the challenges that
we've got we we on our back end we've
got a secondary network that can be
either real or virtual what happens is
we use a token lost time out and a probe
which is ping like ping is the best way
to describe it we have a particular fail
on we have a failure detected on the
network here we detect that the token
has timed out by the way the target that
we're looking at to do this is 10
milliseconds so we're not talking you
know 10 15 20 seconds or a minute or two
10 milliseconds is what we're looking at
we get it to a token loss and then what
we do is we'll send a probe down that
probe fails because it can't ping that
particular note it times out and detects
a failure it does a switchover we bring
up our secondary network which can be
like i said before can be a tunnel
network through your your public
interface or it can be another interface
another physical interface and this is
absolutely transparent to your
applications that are running so it
continues to replicate your data and
really doesn't miss much of a heartbeat
whatsoever so this is the example that I
was talking about before for fault
detection and isolation I moved it over
so I've got five servers here i have a
fault that happens on a net back network
and just for the sake of discussion will
say that this occurred on both the
primary and the secondary network I mean
this is highly unlikely but I'm just
saying that this is what would happen we
get a fault there on both your primary
and secondary networks you have a
partition network and you'll notice here
that the front side is active so the
load balancing is occurring on all three
of these each one of each one of these
would be servicing a database request
but the replication is only hat is
working between these two down here and
these three up here classic partition
network well what happens is
we have a partition or two in a
partition of three our logic or our
policies and decide that the three has
got the quorum everybody negotiates a
quorum the to understand that they're a
minority because they know how many
nodes were in the cluster and they
simply drop off and you're running a
three node cluster and this is how you
avoid your your partition network once
again the whole idea is to have
absolutely consistent replicated
databases under you know a very tight
consistency it's not really designed for
a lazy or loose coupling where it
doesn't matter if your read can be you
know seconds behind or minutes behind
but for very let's say financial
applications or things like that where
each one of your nodes has has to have
exactly the same data at the same time
that's really what am i cap l'occasion
cluster is designed to do one of the
other things that is really kind of an
advantage compared to let's say some
legacy solutions that are out there so
we have a substantially lower total cost
of operation this is using an example
where somebody else's product will use
Intel hardware and our product is
running on Apple X serves the assumption
is that we're using four hundred users
and this and this includes the hardware
the software the cows the maintenance
everything in a total package and you
can see we're substantially cheaper the
other solution to do the same thing
would be costing you over half a million
dollars and our list price on doing this
is a little bit over 32,000 dollars so
we're going for a very low total cost of
operation so kind of in summary there
when I'm we do mysql and apache clusters
not computational cost clusters where
the hybrid approach where we do data
store and application clustering we
bring those two together our focus is
accurate replication where you need very
very tight replication between your
various servers where you need to scale
your databases very solidly very low
total cost of operation the other thing
that I'm kind of looking to you guys for
is our release candidate program like I
said we're on version
20 on other platforms but we're looking
for beta testers and release candidate
testers for our code to run on OS 10
we're looking at releasing that sometime
late 23 early q4 with production is
scheduled sometime around the end of the
year or early part of the year product
managers get very upset when I actually
you know nail them down with dates you
guys are familiar with that I mean there
could be a bug that you know somebody
determines during the actual release
candidate program to slip those dates
but anyway we're looking at q4 and early
q 1 2005 for production code on OS 10 so
if you're interested in that somewhere
up here it had my email address on there
or you can go to our website at WWE
Network amor my email address is Thomas
dot Loran at application cluster calm
one of the things about having an early
stage company is sometimes we really
can't decide on what our name is so my
email address is actually Thomas dot
Lauren lor am at application cluster
calm so if you guys want to be part of
the release candidate program and test
this as we're running out production
release I'd be happy to talk to you and
getting this set up in your environment
so that i am going to work with chris
who's going to handle any kind of app
Apple questions I wanted to see if there
any questions from the audience here on
mysql and apache clustering